README.md, before:

# AI-Powered Graph Theory Counterexample Discovery

A comprehensive research project combining **Adaptive Monte Carlo Search (AMCS)**, **Reinforcement Learning (RL)**, and **Hybrid RL+AMCS** algorithms to discover counterexamples for fundamental graph theory conjectures.

## Project Overview

This repository contains implementations of advanced AI algorithms designed to systematically search for counterexamples to three major graph theory conjectures:

- **Critical Exponents Conjecture**
- **Second Neighborhood Conjecture** 
- **Sidorenko Conjecture**

Each conjecture is approached using multiple algorithmic strategies and different mathematical representations (graphs, graphons, matrices) to maximize the probability of discovering counterexamples.

## Repository Structure

```
AI_powered_graph_theory_counterexample_discovery/
├── CountHomLib/                    # Homomorphism counting library
├── critical_exponents_conjecture/  # Critical exponents research
│   ├── graph/                     # Graph-based approaches
│   └── graphon/                   # Graphon-based approaches
├── second_neighborhood_conjecture/ # Second neighborhood research
│   ├── amcs_approach/            # AMCS implementations
│   └── rl_approach/              # RL implementations
└── sidorenko_conjecture/          # Sidorenko conjecture research
    ├── graph/                    # Graph-based approaches
    ├── graphon/                  # Graphon-based approaches
    └── matrix/                   # Matrix-based approaches
```

## Algorithmic Approaches

### 1. Adaptive Monte Carlo Search (AMCS)
A sophisticated heuristic search algorithm that:
- Uses nested Monte Carlo methods for local optimization
- Implements adaptive annealing strategies
- Employs graph perturbation techniques
- Provides systematic exploration of the search space

### 2. Reinforcement Learning (RL)
Machine learning approach featuring:
- **PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization)** agents for discrete spaces and **SAC (Soft Actor-Critic)** agents for continuous spaces
- Custom graph environments for each conjecture
- Reward functions based on conjecture-specific objectives
- Continuous learning and adaptation

### 3. Hybrid RL+AMCS
Combined approach that:
- Alternates between RL exploration and AMCS refinement
- Uses RL for global exploration and AMCS for local optimization
- Implements knowledge transfer between approaches
- Maximizes strengths of both methodologies

## Mathematical Representations

### Graphs
- **Standard graphs**: Traditional vertex-edge representations
- **Directed graphs**: For orientation-sensitive conjectures
- **Weighted graphs**: Supporting real-valued edge weights

### Graphons
- **Continuous representations**: Limit objects of graph sequences
- **Symmetric matrices**: Values in [0,1] representing edge probabilities
- **Homomorphism integration**: Using advanced calculus techniques

### Matrices
- **Eigenvalue methods**: Spectral approaches to conjecture analysis
- **Optimization on matrix spaces**: Direct search in matrix manifolds
- **Algebraic formulations**: Leveraging linear algebra properties

## CountHomLib Integration

This project extensively uses [CountHomLib](https://github.com/kevinwangwkw/CountHomLib), the newest and the most efficient C++ library for counting graph homomorphisms with Python bindings developed by our Research Team

### Key Features:
- **Polynomial-time algorithms** for tree-width bounded graphs
- **Dynamic programming** on nice tree decompositions
- **Graphon support** for continuous representations
- **Optimized implementation** using modern C++ and OpenMP

### Installation:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/kevinwangwkw/CountHomLib
pip3 install ./CountHomLib
```

For macOS users encountering OpenMP issues:
```bash
brew install llvm
LDFLAGS="-L$(brew --prefix llvm)/lib" \
CPPFLAGS="-I$(brew --prefix llvm)/include" \
CC="$(brew --prefix llvm)/bin/clang" \
CXX="$(brew --prefix llvm)/bin/clang++" \
pip3 install ./CountHomLib
```

## Research Conjectures

### [Critical Exponents Conjecture](critical_exponents_conjecture/)
**Objective**: Find graphs maximizing the ratio log(t(H₁,T)) / log(t(H₂,T)) for specific graphs H₁, H₂.

**Applications**: Understanding extremal properties of homomorphism densities and their asymptotic behavior.

### [Second Neighborhood Conjecture](second_neighborhood_conjecture/)
**Objective**: Find oriented graphs where every vertex v satisfies |N⁺⁺(v)| ≥ |N⁺(v)|.

**Applications**: Structural graph theory and tournament analysis.

### [Sidorenko Conjecture](sidorenko_conjecture/)
**Objective**: Find counterexamples to the conjecture that bipartite graphs H satisfy t(H,G) ≥ t(K₂,G)^|E(H)|.

**Applications**: Extremal graph theory and combinatorial optimization.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
# Python dependencies
pip install numpy scipy matplotlib networkx sage
pip install stable-baselines3 gymnasium

# CountHomLib installation (see above)
```

### Running Experiments (on the example of the Critical Exponents Conjecture)

1. **AMCS Approach**:
```bash
cd critical_exponents_conjecture/graph/amcs_approach/
python main.py
```

2. **RL Approach**:
```bash
cd critical_exponents_conjecture/graph/rl_approach/
python train_rl.py
```

3. **Hybrid RL+AMCS**:
```bash
cd critical_exponents_conjecture/graph/rl+amcs_approach/
python main.py
```

## Research Methodology

### Experimental Design
- **Systematic parameter sweeps** across algorithm hyperparameters
- **Statistical analysis** of convergence properties
- **Comparative evaluation** between algorithmic approaches
- **Scalability studies** on varying graph sizes

### Performance Metrics
- **Objective function values** (conjecture-specific)
- **Convergence rates** and stability analysis
- **Computational efficiency** and resource utilization
- **Solution quality** and mathematical rigor

### Validation
- **Mathematical verification** of discovered counterexamples
- **Cross-validation** across different implementations
- **Peer review** and community validation
- **Reproducibility** through detailed documentation

## Advanced Features

### Optimization Techniques
- **Adaptive annealing schedules** in AMCS
- **Custom neural network architectures** for RL
- **Hybrid exploration strategies** combining global and local search
- **Multi-objective optimization** for competing criteria

### Computational Efficiency
- **Parallel processing** using multiprocessing and threading
- **Efficient graph representations** minimizing memory usage
- **Optimized homomorphism counting** via CountHomLib
- **Smart caching** of expensive computations

### Extensibility
- **Modular design** enabling easy addition of new conjectures
- **Abstract base classes** for algorithmic approaches
- **Configuration-driven** experimentation
- **Plugin architecture** for custom scoring functions

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the graph theory and machine learning communities:

1. **New conjectures**: Implement additional graph theory problems
2. **Algorithm improvements**: Enhance existing AMCS, RL, or hybrid methods
3. **Performance optimization**: Improve computational efficiency
4. **Documentation**: Expand mathematical explanations and usage examples

## References

- Díaz, J., Serna, M., & Thilikos, D. M. (2002). Counting H-colorings of partial k-trees
- Lovász, L. (2012). Large networks and graph limits
- Sidorenko, A. F. (1993). A correlation inequality for bipartite graphs
- Schulman, J., et al. (2017). Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite:
```bibtex
@software{ai_graph_counterexamples,
  title={AI-Powered Graph Theory Counterexample Discovery},
  author={[Iurii Beliaev]},
  year={2024},
  url={https://github.com/yura4350/AI_powered_graph_theory_counterexample_discovery}
}
```

## Contact

For questions, suggestions, or collaborations, please open an issue or contact the maintainers.

---

*This research project represents the intersection of artificial intelligence and pure mathematics, pushing the boundaries of automated mathematical discovery.*

Commit message:

Update to Cycle Domination conjecture

README.md, after:

# AI-Powered Graph Theory Counterexample Discovery

A comprehensive research project combining **Adaptive Monte Carlo Search (AMCS)**, **Reinforcement Learning (RL)**, and **Hybrid RL+AMCS** algorithms to discover counterexamples for fundamental graph theory conjectures.

## Project Overview

This repository contains implementations of advanced AI algorithms designed to systematically search for counterexamples to major graph theory conjectures and to find computational lower bounds for important mathematical problems:

- **Cycle Domination Exponents**
- **Second Neighborhood Conjecture** 
- **Sidorenko Conjecture**

Each problem is approached using multiple algorithmic strategies and different mathematical representations (graphs, graphons, matrices) to maximize the probability of discovering counterexamples or improving known bounds.

## Repository Structure

```
AI_powered_graph_theory_counterexample_discovery/
├── CountHomLib/                    # Homomorphism counting library
├── cycle_domination_exponents/     # Cycle domination exponents research
│   ├── graph/                     # Graph-based approaches
│   └── graphon/                   # Graphon-based approaches
├── second_neighborhood_conjecture/ # Second neighborhood research
│   ├── amcs_approach/            # AMCS implementations
│   └── rl_approach/              # RL implementations
└── sidorenko_conjecture/          # Sidorenko conjecture research
    ├── graph/                    # Graph-based approaches
    ├── graphon/                  # Graphon-based approaches
    └── matrix/                   # Matrix-based approaches
```

## Algorithmic Approaches

### 1. Adaptive Monte Carlo Search (AMCS)
A sophisticated heuristic search algorithm that:
- Uses nested Monte Carlo methods for local optimization
- Implements adaptive annealing strategies
- Employs graph perturbation techniques
- Provides systematic exploration of the search space

### 2. Reinforcement Learning (RL)
Machine learning approach featuring:
- **PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization)** agents for discrete spaces and **SAC (Soft Actor-Critic)** agents for continuous spaces
- Custom graph environments for each conjecture
- Reward functions based on conjecture-specific objectives
- Continuous learning and adaptation

### 3. Hybrid RL+AMCS
Combined approach that:
- Alternates between RL exploration and AMCS refinement
- Uses RL for global exploration and AMCS for local optimization
- Implements knowledge transfer between approaches
- Maximizes strengths of both methodologies

## Mathematical Representations

### Graphs
- **Standard graphs**: Traditional vertex-edge representations
- **Directed graphs**: For orientation-sensitive conjectures
- **Weighted graphs**: Supporting real-valued edge weights

### Graphons
- **Continuous representations**: Limit objects of graph sequences
- **Symmetric matrices**: Values in [0,1] representing edge probabilities
- **Homomorphism integration**: Using advanced calculus techniques

### Matrices
- **Eigenvalue methods**: Spectral approaches to conjecture analysis
- **Optimization on matrix spaces**: Direct search in matrix manifolds
- **Algebraic formulations**: Leveraging linear algebra properties

## CountHomLib Integration

This project extensively uses [CountHomLib](https://github.com/kevinwangwkw/CountHomLib), the newest and the most efficient C++ library for counting graph homomorphisms with Python bindings developed by our Research Team

### Key Features:
- **Polynomial-time algorithms** for tree-width bounded graphs
- **Dynamic programming** on nice tree decompositions
- **Graphon support** for continuous representations
- **Optimized implementation** using modern C++ and OpenMP

### Installation:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/kevinwangwkw/CountHomLib
pip3 install ./CountHomLib
```

For macOS users encountering OpenMP issues:
```bash
brew install llvm
LDFLAGS="-L$(brew --prefix llvm)/lib" \
CPPFLAGS="-I$(brew --prefix llvm)/include" \
CC="$(brew --prefix llvm)/bin/clang" \
CXX="$(brew --prefix llvm)/bin/clang++" \
pip3 install ./CountHomLib
```

## Research Problems

### [Cycle Domination Exponents](cycle_domination_exponents/)
**Objective**: Find computational lower bounds for the homomorphism density domination exponent C(H₁,H₂) between pairs of cycle graphs by maximizing the ratio log(t(H₁,T)) / log(t(H₂,T)).

**Applications**: Understanding extremal properties of homomorphism densities and their asymptotic behavior, with specific focus on odd cycles like C₅ and C₃.

### [Second Neighborhood Conjecture](second_neighborhood_conjecture/)
**Objective**: Find oriented graphs where every vertex v satisfies |N⁺⁺(v)| ≥ |N⁺(v)|.

**Applications**: Structural graph theory and tournament analysis.

### [Sidorenko Conjecture](sidorenko_conjecture/)
**Objective**: Find counterexamples to the conjecture that bipartite graphs H satisfy t(H,G) ≥ t(K₂,G)^|E(H)|.

**Applications**: Extremal graph theory and combinatorial optimization.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
# Python dependencies
pip install numpy scipy matplotlib networkx sage
pip install stable-baselines3 gymnasium

# CountHomLib installation (see above)
```

### Running Experiments (on the example of the Cycle Domination Exponents)

1. **AMCS Approach**:
```bash
cd cycle_domination_exponents/graph/amcs_approach/
python main.py
```

2. **RL Approach**:
```bash
cd cycle_domination_exponents/graph/rl_approach/
python train_rl.py
```

3. **Hybrid RL+AMCS**:
```bash
cd cycle_domination_exponents/graph/rl+amcs_approach/
python main.py
```

## Research Methodology

### Experimental Design
- **Systematic parameter sweeps** across algorithm hyperparameters
- **Statistical analysis** of convergence properties
- **Comparative evaluation** between algorithmic approaches
- **Scalability studies** on varying graph sizes

### Performance Metrics
- **Objective function values** (conjecture-specific)
- **Convergence rates** and stability analysis
- **Computational efficiency** and resource utilization
- **Solution quality** and mathematical rigor

### Validation
- **Mathematical verification** of discovered counterexamples
- **Cross-validation** across different implementations
- **Peer review** and community validation
- **Reproducibility** through detailed documentation

## Advanced Features

### Optimization Techniques
- **Adaptive annealing schedules** in AMCS
- **Custom neural network architectures** for RL
- **Hybrid exploration strategies** combining global and local search
- **Multi-objective optimization** for competing criteria

### Computational Efficiency
- **Parallel processing** using multiprocessing and threading
- **Efficient graph representations** minimizing memory usage
- **Optimized homomorphism counting** via CountHomLib
- **Smart caching** of expensive computations

### Extensibility
- **Modular design** enabling easy addition of new conjectures
- **Abstract base classes** for algorithmic approaches
- **Configuration-driven** experimentation
- **Plugin architecture** for custom scoring functions

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the graph theory and machine learning communities:

1. **New conjectures**: Implement additional graph theory problems
2. **Algorithm improvements**: Enhance existing AMCS, RL, or hybrid methods
3. **Performance optimization**: Improve computational efficiency
4. **Documentation**: Expand mathematical explanations and usage examples

## References

- Blekherman, G., Raymond, A., Razborov, A., & Wei, F. (2025). On Domination Exponents for Pairs of Graphs. arXiv:2506.12151
- Díaz, J., Serna, M., & Thilikos, D. M. (2002). Counting H-colorings of partial k-trees
- Lovász, L. (2012). Large networks and graph limits
- Sidorenko, A. F. (1993). A correlation inequality for bipartite graphs
- Schulman, J., et al. (2017). Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite:
```bibtex
@software{ai_graph_counterexamples,
  title={AI-Powered Graph Theory Counterexample Discovery},
  author={[Iurii Beliaev]},
  year={2024},
  url={https://github.com/yura4350/AI_powered_graph_theory_counterexample_discovery}
}
```

## Contact

For questions, suggestions, or collaborations, please open an issue or contact the maintainers.

---

*This research project represents the intersection of artificial intelligence and pure mathematics, pushing the boundaries of automated mathematical discovery.*
